README.md, before:

# [Firedancer](https://jumpcrypto.com/firedancer/) 🔥💃

Firedancer is a new validator client for Solana.

* **Fast** Designed from the ground up to be *fast*. The concurrency
model is borrowed from the low latency trading space, and the code
contains many novel high performance reimplementations of core Solana
primitives.
* **Secure** The architecture of the validator allows it to run with a
highly restrictive sandbox and almost no system calls.
* **Independent** Firedancer is written from scratch. This brings client
diversity to the Solana network and helps it stay resilient to supply
chain attacks in build tooling or dependencies.

## Documentation
If you are an operator or looking to run the validator, see the Getting
Started guide in the [Firedancer
docs](https://firedancer-io.github.io/firedancer/)

## Developing
The below describes building Frankendancer from scratch and running it
optimized on a stock Linux image. You will need basic development tools
like `make`, `gcc` along with `rustc`, and `clang`.

Officially supported compilers for production use are the latest releases of _gcc 11_, _gcc 12_ and _gcc 13_.

The latest release of Clang 17 is supported for development and tooling.

Frankendancer currently only supports Linux, and requires a kernel newer
than v5.7 to build.

```bash
$ sudo dnf groupinstall development
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

Then you can clone and build the application from source,

```bash
$ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/firedancer-io/firedancer.git
$ cd firedancer
$ ./deps.sh
$ make -j run
```

The `make run` target runs the `fddev dev` command. This development
command will ensure your system is configured correctly before creating
a genesis block, some keys, a faucet, and then starting a validator on
the local machine. `fddev` will use `sudo` to make privileged changes to
system configuration where needed. If `sudo` is not available, you may
need to run the command as root.

By default `fddev` will create a new development cluster, if you wish to
join this cluster with other validators, you can define
`[rpc.entrypoints]` in the configuration file to point at your first
validator and run `fddev dev` again.

### Code Coverage
Test and fuzzing coverage are available [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/firedancer-ci-artifacts-public/index.html).

## License
Firedancer is available under the [Apache 2
license](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). Firedancer also
includes external libraries that are available under a variety of
licenses. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.

Commit message:

mmcgee suggestion: mention other compilers and security

README.md, after:

# [Firedancer](https://jumpcrypto.com/firedancer/) 🔥💃

Firedancer is a new validator client for Solana.

* **Fast** Designed from the ground up to be *fast*. The concurrency
model is borrowed from the low latency trading space, and the code
contains many novel high performance reimplementations of core Solana
primitives.
* **Secure** The architecture of the validator allows it to run with a
highly restrictive sandbox and almost no system calls.
* **Independent** Firedancer is written from scratch. This brings client
diversity to the Solana network and helps it stay resilient to supply
chain attacks in build tooling or dependencies.

## Documentation
If you are an operator or looking to run the validator, see the Getting
Started guide in the [Firedancer
docs](https://firedancer-io.github.io/firedancer/)

## Developing
The below describes building Frankendancer from scratch and running it
optimized on a stock Linux image. You will need basic development tools
like `make`, `gcc` along with `rustc`, and `clang`.

Officially supported compilers for production use are the latest releases of _gcc 11_, _gcc 12_ and _gcc 13_. Other compilers are likely to work but are not tested or secured by the Firedancer team.

Building with the latest release of Clang 17 is supported for development and tooling, but not recommended  for production use.

Frankendancer currently only supports Linux, and requires a kernel newer
than v5.7 to build.

```bash
$ sudo dnf groupinstall development
$ curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

Then you can clone and build the application from source,

```bash
$ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/firedancer-io/firedancer.git
$ cd firedancer
$ ./deps.sh
$ make -j run
```

The `make run` target runs the `fddev dev` command. This development
command will ensure your system is configured correctly before creating
a genesis block, some keys, a faucet, and then starting a validator on
the local machine. `fddev` will use `sudo` to make privileged changes to
system configuration where needed. If `sudo` is not available, you may
need to run the command as root.

By default `fddev` will create a new development cluster, if you wish to
join this cluster with other validators, you can define
`[rpc.entrypoints]` in the configuration file to point at your first
validator and run `fddev dev` again.

### Code Coverage
Test and fuzzing coverage are available [here](https://storage.googleapis.com/firedancer-ci-artifacts-public/index.html).

## License
Firedancer is available under the [Apache 2
license](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). Firedancer also
includes external libraries that are available under a variety of
licenses. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for the full license text.
